Get now ready to see how to build one
layer of a convolutional neural network,
let's go through the example.
You've seen at the previous video
how to take a 3D volume and
convolve it with say
two different filters.
In order to get in this example
to different 4 by 4 outputs.
So let's say convolving with the first
filter gives this first 4 by 4 output, and
convolving with this second filter
gives a different 4 by 4 output.
The final thing to turn this into
a convolutional neural net layer,
is that for
each of these we're going to add it bias,
so this is going to be a real number.
And where python broadcasting,
you kind of have to add the same number so
every one of these 16 elements.
And then apply a non-linearity which for
this illustration that says relative
non-linearity, and
this gives you a 4 by 4 output, all right?
After applying the bias and
the non-linearity.
And then for this thing at the bottom as
well, you add some different bias, again,
this is a real number.
So you add the single number
to all 16 numbers, and
then apply some non-linearity,
let's say a real non-linearity.
And this gives you
a different 4 by 4 output.
Then same as we did before,
if we take this and
stack it up as follows, so
we ends up with a 4 by 4 by 2 outputs.
Then this computation where you come
from a 6 by 6 by 3 to 4 by 4 by 4,
this is one layer of
a convolutional neural network.
So to map this back to one layer of
four propagation in the standard neural
network, in a non-convolutional
neural network.
Remember that one step before the prop
was something like this, right?
z1 = w1 times a0, a 0 was also equal to x,
and then plus b[1].
And you apply the non-linearity
to get a[1], so that's g(z[1]).
So this input here,
in this analogy this is a[0], this is x3.
And these filters here,
this plays a role similar to w1.
And you remember during the convolution
operation, you were taking
these 27 numbers, or really well,
27 times 2, because you have two filters.
You're taking all of these numbers and
multiplying them.
So you're really computing a linear
function to get this 4 x 4 matrix.
So that 4 x 4 matrix,
the output of the convolution operation,
that plays a rolesimilar to w1 times a0.
That's really maybe the output of
this 4 x 4 as well as that 4 x 4.
And then the other thing
you do is add the bias.
So, this thing here before applying value,
this plays a role similar to z.
And then it's finally by applying the
non-linearity, this kind of this I guess.
So, this output plays a role,
this really becomes your
activation at the next layer.
So this is how you go from a0 to a1,
as far as tthe linear operation and
then convolution has all these multipled.
So the convolution is really
applying a linear operation and
you have the biases and
the applied value operation.
And you've gone from a 6 by 6 by 3,
dimensional a0,
through one layer of neural network to,
I guess a 4 by 4 by 2 dimensional a(1).
And so 6 by 6 by 3 has gone
to 4 by 4 by 2, and so
that is one layer of convolutional net.
Now in this example we have two filters,
so we had two features of you will,
which is why we wound up
with our output 4 by 4 by 2.
But if for example we instead
had 10 filters instead of 2,
then we would have wound up with the 4
by 4 by 10 dimensional output volume.
Because we'll be taking 10 of these naps
not just two of them, and stacking them
up to form a 4 by 4 by 10 output volume,
and that's what a1 would be.
So, to make sure you understand this,
let's go through an exercise.
Let's suppose you have 10 filters, not
just two filters, that are 3 by 3 by 3 and
1 layer of a neural network,
how many parameters does this layer have?
Well, let's figure this out.
Each filter, is a 3 x 3 x 3 volume,
so 3 x 3 x 3,
so each fill has 27 parameters, all right?
There's 27 numbers to be run,
and plus the bias.
So that was the b parameter, so
this gives you 28 parameters.
And then if you imagine that on the
previous slide we had drawn two filters,
but now if you imagine that you
actually have ten of these, right?
1, 2..., 10 of these,
then all together you'll have 28 times 10,
so that will be 280 parameters.
Notice one nice thing about this, is that
no matter how big the input image is,
the input image could be 1,000 by 1,000 or
5,000 by 5,000,
but the number of parameters you
have still remains fixed as 280.
And you can use these ten filters
to detect features, vertical edges,
horizontal edges maybe other
features anywhere even in a very,
very large image is just a very
small number of parameters.
So these is really one property of
convolution neural network that
makes less prone to
overfitting then if you could.
So once you've learned 10
feature detectors that work,
you could apply this even to large images.
And the number of parameters still
is fixed and relatively small,
as 280 in this example.
All right, so to wrap up this video
let's just summarize the notation we
are going to use to describe one layer
to describe a covolutional layer in
a convolutional neural network.
So layer l is a convolution layer,
l am going to use f superscript,[l]
to denote the filter size.
So previously we've been seeing
the filters are f by f, and
now this superscript square bracket
l just denotes that this is
a filter size of f by f filter layer l.
And as usual the superscript square
bracket l is the notation we're using to
refer to particular layer l.
going to use p[l] to denote
the amount of padding.
And again, the amount of padding can also
be specified just by saying that you want
a valid convolution,
which means no padding, or
a same convolution which
means you choose the padding.
So that the output size has the same
height and width as the input size.
And then you're going to use
s[l] to denote the stride.
Now, the input to this layer
is going to be some dimension.
It's going be some n by n by number
of channels in the previous layer.
Now, I'm going to modify
this notation a little bit.
I'm going to us superscript l- 1,
because that's the activation from
the previous layer, l- 1 times nc of l- 1.
And in the example so far, we've been just
using images of the same height and width.
That in case the height and
width might differ,
l am going to use superscript h and
superscript w, to denote the height and
width of the input of the previous layer,
all right?
So in layer l,
the size of the volume will be nh
by nw by nc with superscript
squared bracket l.
It's just in layer l, the input to
this layer Is whatever you had for
the previous layer, so
that's why you have l- 1 there.
And then this layer of the neural
network will itself output the value.
So that will be nh of l by nw of l,
by nc of l,
that will be the size of the output.
And so whereas we approve this set
that the output volume size or
at least the height and
weight is given by this formula,
n + 2p- f over s + 1, and then take
the full of that and round it down.
In this new notation what we have is that
the outputs value that's in layer l,
is going to be the dimension
from the previous layer,
plus the padding we're
using in this layer l,
minus the filter size we're
using this layer l and so on.
And technically this is true for
the height, right?
So the height of the output volume is
given by this, and you can compute it
with this formula on the right, and
the same is true for the width as well.
So you cross out h and
throw in w as well, then the same
formula with either the height or
the width plugged in for computing
the height or width of the output value.
So that's how nhl -1 relates to nhl and
wl- 1 relates to nwl.
Now, how about the number of channels,
where did those numbers come from?
Let's take a look,
if the output volume has this depth,
while we know from the previous
examples that that's equal
to the number of filters we
have in that layer, right?
So we had two filters, the output value
was 4 by 4 by 2, was 2 dimensional.
And if you had 10 filters and
your upper volume was 4 by 4 by 10.
So, this the number of
channels in the output value,
that's just the number of filters we're
using in this layer of the neural network.
Next, how about the size of this filter?
Well, each filter is going to be
fl by fl by 100 number, right?
So what is this last number?
Well, we saw that you needed to
convolve a 6 by 6 by 3 image,
with a 3 by 3 by 3 filter.
And so the number of channels in your
filter, must match the number of channels
in your input, so this number
should match that number, right?
Which is why each filter is going
to be f(l) by f(l) by nc(l-1).
And the output of this layer often
apply devices in non-linearity,
is going to be the activations
of this layer al.
And that we've already seen
will be this dimension, right?
The al will be a 3D volume,
that's nHl by nwl by ncl.
And when you are using a vectorized
implementation or batch gradient
descent or mini batch gradient descent,
then you actually outputs Al,
which is a set of m activations,
if you have m examples.
So that would be M by nHl,
by nwl by ncl right?
If say you're using
bash grading decent and
in the programming sizes this will
be ordering of the variables.
And we have the index and
the trailing examples first,
and then these three variables.
Next how about the weights or the
parameters, or kind of the w parameter?
Well we saw already what
the filter dimension is.
So the filters are going to
be f[l] by f[l] by nc [l- 1],
but that's the dimension of one filter.
How many filters do we have?
Well, this is a total number of filters,
so
the weights really all of the filters
put together will have dimension given
by this,
times the total number of filters, right?
Because this,
Last quantity is the number of
filters, In layer l.
And then finally,
you have the bias parameters, and
you have one bias parameter,
one real number for each filter.
So you're going to have,
the bias will have this many variables,
it's just a vector of this dimension.
Although later on we'll
see that the code will be
more convenient represented
as 1 by 1 by 1 by nc[l]
four dimensional matrix, or
four dimensional tensor.
So I know that was a lot of notation, and
this is the convention I'll use for
the most part.
I just want to mention in case you search
online and look at open source code.
There isn't a completely universal
standard convention about the ordering of
height, width, and channel.
So If you look on source code on GitHub or
these open source implementations,
you'll find that some authors use this
order instead, where you first put
the channel first, and you sometimes
see that ordering of the variables.
And in fact in some common frameworks,
actually in multiple common frameworks,
there's actually a variable or
a parameter.
Why do you want to list
the number of channels first, or
list the number of channels last
when indexing into these volumes.
I think both of these conventions work
okay, so long as you're consistent.
And unfortunately maybe this is
one piece of annotation where
there isn't consensus in
the deep learning literature but
i'm going to use this convention for
these videos.
Where we list height and width and
then the number of channels last.
So I know there was certainly a lot of
new notations you could use, but you're
thinking wow, that's a long notation,
how do I need to remember all of these?
Don't worry about it, you don't need
to remember all of this notation, and
through this week's exercises you become
more familiar with it at that time.
But the key point I hope you
take a way from this video,
is just one layer of how
convolutional neural network works.
And the computations involved in taking
the activations of one layer and
mapping that to the activations
of the next layer.
And next, now that you know how one layer
of the compositional neural network works,
let's stack a bunch of these together
to actually form a deeper compositional
neural network.
Let's go on to the next video to see,